OUR SOLUTION:-

The voting process can be improved by using a private blockchain, which will increase security due to the use of peer-to-peer network, and clubbing Azure Blockchain with Multichain, which will help as it has an auto mining option which will mine blocks at less computation power and transaction cost. It is also more user-friendly as it supports python, C# and JavaScript to interact with the platform. Multichain also supports asset management, which is unique in that one can define an asset and issue Units of asset in the network ("Vote" can be assigned as an asset). Each registered voter will be assigned exactly one vote during the registration process.

This system, alongside blockchain, needs some additional components to ensure voter anonymity and maintenance of the voting data confidentially. For this, an Authentication organization (like the EC) and a TTP (Trusted Third Party) is needed. TTP will act as a bridge b/w EC and the voter to authenticate the voter while maintaining voter anonymity.
The authentication organization should be the entity that holds voter information. During electronic voting, the organization determines voter validity. At the same time, it maintains confidentiality of the voter information.
The TTP should be a private organization that helps in validating the voters during voting. It should ensure that the voter information is kept anonymous to the Authentication organization to prevent potential manipulation of votes.

Now, once TTP authorizes voters to vote, the voter can choose whom he wants to choose whom he wants to vote for within his constituency. This will solve the problem of voters who are registered to vote for in a different area and are living in a different area and NRI's, as now it would be his unique identity that will allow him to vote, online.
Now, in the private blockchain we have deployed for our voting process, each vote will be the equivalent of an asset in the blockchain as the transaction happens between the voter and candidate. By restricting the Block-chain asset to a process maximum of one transaction between parties, restricting both the options of either multiple votes sent to the same candidate or voting for multiple candidates.

Now, the EC should provide a user interface to maintain a record of all the valid voters for an election in a constituency. On this interface, each user should be validated and registered using a Unique Identification Number (UIN) assigned by the EC. This will nullify any chance of the voter registering multiple times with different identities or voting multiple times. In the registration process, the voter receives a unique reference number (URN) to be used during voting. Also, an internally hashed secret message and reference number is generated and stored in the EC database, to be used for cross-referencing during the voting process. Now the URN should not be revealed to anybody, to ensure the integrity of the voter and remove any chances of vote modifications.  
Now, for every candidate participating will be given a public address generated by the EC, and is stored against the candidate. Then, during voting, this address will be made visible to the voters to vote for candidates.

Now, during voting, the voter has to get their biometrics verified and then submit the same secret message and URN that has been generated previously, to the TTP.TTP sends the message hash to the EC to get verification for voter as valid and upon verification, voter will be taken to the voting page and shown a list of candidates according to his constituency. During this process, TTP generates a public key for the voter using the block-chain network and stores this information against the secret message hash and URN.
Since it’s an Electronic Voting System, reports can be generated in real time. Therefore, after the voting completes, detailed reports about a candidate's results, party-wise results, constituency results, etc. can be easily prepared by using any AI tool by combining data from multi-chain and data stored in EC records.
